#*#Functional and some Technical point of view :-

1. What is the root business unit, and can we modify it?
2. What are managed/unmanaged solutions? Is it possible to update components in a managed solution?
3. Where do we find settings related to numbers, currency and datetime format?
4. What is the main advantage of using Power Automate ?
5. Explain Manager and Position Hierarchy in D365 ?
6. How to achieve Field Level Security ?
7. What is the difference between workflows and Dialogues ?
8. What is the difference between Access Teams and Owner teams ?
9. Explain the event execution pipeline in D365.
10. What happens when multiple security roles are assigned to a user? How is the level of security determined ?
11. Explain 1:N and N:N relationships and what happens when we create them.
12. What are the various web resources supported by D365 CE?
13. Can the default solution be exported as a managed solution?
14. What is Append and Append To privilege ?
15. What and Timeout and Wait conditions in workflows ?

1.What do you mean by an unmanaged solution ?
2.What are the numbers of implementations that you have completed ?
3.What are the significant differences between configuration and customization ?
4.Define a Plugin ?
5.Define the Execution Model related to Event Pipeline
6.Is it possible to change the name of a root business units ?
7.What is the core diff btw delete and remove buttons on the solution ?
8.Explain all the step involved in exporting a solution as managed solution ?
9.In which place we can make modifications to number and currency and time formats ?
10.Where can we find the owner of a managed solution ?
11.What is the advance search? Advanced Find is a powerful feature in Dynamics 365 that can be used easily by literally any user without SQL query knowledge
12.What do you know about E-mail roouter in MS CRM

#*#Plugin Interview Questions:
1.Explain in details about the event execution pipeline.
2.When do we register a plugin in a child pipeline? give examples
3.What are images? Why are they used?
4.What is early binding and late binding? How is it used in CRM?
5.How do you debug a plugin?
6.When an infinite loop occurs in a plugin. How do you avoid infinite loops in the plugin code?
7.How do you avoid SQL deadlock?
8.if you delete a record from UI, what happens in the database. can you bring the record back?
9.what is deletion service? can you change its schedule
10.Difference between PlugIn vs Workflow (Asynchronous vs Synchronous)
11.for plugin deployment, Difference between GAC, DataBase, Disk deployments.
12.Difference between CRM web service Vs CRM.SDKProxy namespaces.
13.What are the different operation (Pre Validation, Preoperation & Post operation) in Plugin?
14.Difference between Secure & Unsecured Config?
15.When we should go with Early binding and when with Late Binding?
16.Can we pass data between two Plugins?
17.Can we register For-premise plugin in Sandbox mode ? 
18.Different modes of the plugin?
19.Why we need to Create Security Key before registered the plugin?
20.Alternate Keys in Microsoft Dynamics 365 !
21.What interface we use a plugin to inherit CRM Services?
22.Importance of Secondary Entity in plugin registration tool?
23.What security roles need to register the plugin in Online and on-premise both?
24.What is filtering Attribute in CRM Plugin Reg Tool?
25.What is Tracing Service in Plugin?
26.What is the Target Entity, Input and Output Parameter in Plugin?
27.Difference between Service.Retrieve and Service.retrieve multiple
28.What are different ways (QueryExpression, LINQ,
   FetchXML) to fetch CRM metadata in Plugin? Difference between them? fetch xml support aggigation query expression dose not support aggregation
29.Disadvantages of using Query Expressions?
30.What is the Execution Time of Sync and Async plugin in CRM? :: asynchronous plugin excute immediatly
31.Which will execute first in ASync Workflow and Async Plugin?
32.How can we call external web service in on-premise and Online plugin CRM?
33.What are the different ways available to debug a Plugin (Onprem and Online both)
34.Can we register on-premise plugin in Sandbox mode?
35.Why online plugin has to be registered in sandbox mode only?
36.What are the different storage locations available to store a plugin?
37.What are the DLLs required to register a plugin?
38.What is the significance of System.Runtime.serialization.dll in the plugin?
39.What information can we get from Plugin Context?
40.What is the difference between Plugin Context and Pre-Image?
41.How can you get the plugin tracing information in CRM?
42.Can we configure our own connection string and credential inside the plugins?  :::: using xrm tooling enble you to connect your instance  by using connection string
43.What are the OOPs concepts use in Dynamics CRM? Tell me with examples?
44.Tell me any Example of Inheritance in Dynamics CRM?
45.Tell me any Example of Polymorphism in Dynamics CRM?
46.Tell me any Example of Abstraction in Dynamics CRM?
47.Tell me any Example of Constructor in Dynamics CRM?
48.Tell me any Example of Classes and Objects in Dynamics CRM?
49.Tell me any Example of Encapsulation in Dynamics CRM?
50.What is the execution timeout of Async and Sync Plugin?
51.Why the field IsValidForUpdate used for from plugin perspective?
52.Can be field security enabled field accessible from Plugin Pre-Images? 
53.What is the significance of Shared variables?
54.Does Impersonation work for Offline Plugins?
55.What are the different ways to register a plugin?
56.In order to access the external website or page, Do we have provision for prompting the logged on user 
   for credentials or saving those credentials inside a plugin?
57.What would be the execution order, if Plugin, Workflow, and javascript are being run in the same event?
58.Which will run first Synchronous Workflow (Real-Time Workflow) or Synchronous Plugin?
59.Which will run first Asynchronous Workflow or Asynchronous Plugin?
60.What happens when we set the execution order of Plugin to '0'?
61.Which property use to check, whether Plug-ins may or may not execute within the database transaction of the Microsoft Dynamics 365 platform?
62.If Async(or Async Workflow) and Sync both plugins are registered on the same entity and event. And Sync Plugin gets failed. What would happen with  Async Plugin?
63.What are the advantages of Plugins over Workflow(System+Custom) and Vice-Versa? Since both can be written on the server side then what Plugin can do that Workflow can't and vice-versa?
64.What are the Limitations of Plugins?
65.What is Azure Aware Plugins?
66.What is the difference between Registering Endpoint and Register Webhook Plugins?
67.How can we deploy Endpoint configuration (url, port, header, key etc) from one instance to another in case of Endpoint registration plugins?


#*#Business Rules Interview Questions:

1.What is Business Rules and why it has been introduced in CRM?
2.What is the Scope of Business Rules?
3.Does Business Rules work for Record Creation or Save?
4.Does Business Rules work during Bulk Import and Bulk Edit?
5.Does Business Rules work when plugin record updates, workflow record updates, etc.?
6.Which run first Javascript or Business Rules if both performing action on the same field?
7.When business rules run with respect to javascript?
8.What is the execution order of System Javascript (source code by Microsoft), Your Custom JavaScript and Business Rules?
9.When a business rule is used to set or change a field value, Does Javascript OnChange event handler triggered?
10.Does Business Rules work when a record is being created from an external web application?
11.How to Fire a Business Rule after a field is updated using JavaScript?
12.Is there any Order to run Business Rules in a Particular field or Entity? How does it work and How to configure the same?
13.How Section and Tab can Hide/Show using Business Rules?
14.What are the limitations of Business Rules?
15.Maximum nuber of if/else statements allowed in BR?
16.What is the maximum limit of using If/Else statement in a Business Rules?
17.Can we enable the Business Rules on Lookup Fields ?
18.CRM 365, Developer complaining, business rules are not working. what could be the reasons for that ? 

#*#Solutions AND Deployement Interview Questions:

1.What is Managed Properties in Solution?
2.Types of Solutions?
3.Difference between Managed and Unmanaged Solutions?
4.Roles needed to export-import the solution?
5.Steps to create a solution in CRM?
6.What Is The Difference Between Remove And Delete Buttons On Solution?
7.What are the solution patch and cloning?
8.How can we delete components from the Managed solution?
9.What are Solutions?
10.What are types of Solutions?
11.What is Managed Solution?
12.What is unmanaged solution?
13.Can we export Default solution as 'Managed Solution'?
14.What options we get when we export Managed & Unmanaged Solution?
15.How can we delete components from the Managed solution?
16.Can we update the components in Managed solution?

17.Difference between Managed and Unmanaged Solutions
18.Difference between Clone a Patch & Clone Solution.
19.Difference between Remove And Delete Buttons on solution
20.Difference between Update & Upgrade a Solution while deployment.

21.What is solution layering?
22.What is 1.0.0.0 in solution versioning?
23.What are the components can be added to solution?
24.What is meant by publisher and why we are using it Solutions?
25.Can you explain the concept of a Publisher prefix?
26.What is Solution Checker?
27.How do you use the Solution Checker to identify potential issues before deploying a solution?
28.Have you used Solution Components Mover in XrmToolBox? What is the use of it?

29.When is the active solution layer is created & what is the impact of it?
30.Did you used patch solution or whole solution was deployed to higher environment in your projects?
31.What are the best practices for versioning solutions in D365 CE?
32.How will you handle versioning in solution building and deployment
33.How do you handle dependencies between different solutions during deployment?
34.Explain the concept of solution patches and their significance in deployment.
35.What are the deployment practices required to perform before, while and after the deployment?
36.What are the post deployment activities we need to follow?
37.How will you identify that you automated pipeline is up and running before starting the deployment?
38.How can you merge multiple solutions in D365 CE without losing customizations?
39.How can you back up or rollback a solution deployment in case of issues?
40.How do you handle data migration and integration tasks during the deployment of a solution?
41.Suppose I want to delete the component from a table in prod environment. Prod environment has managed solution in it. How to achieve this?
42.I am getting missing dependency error while import of solution, how will you resolve this?
43.When we import a solution, I want to disable the plugin steps. Can I do it & if yes, then how?
44.I have deleted one field from an entity A in development environment & I need to push these changes in Production A & B. How to achieve this? (Assume solution in Prod A is Managed & in Prod B is unmanaged)



#*#Miscellaneous Interview Questions:
++
1.On Creation of Entity, How Many Tables will Be created At Back End?
2.Difference between Share and Assign?
3.Can system admin read the Field Level Security?
4.Why CRM use Webservice only to interact with the external applications?
5.What information IPlugin interface store and what is the significance of the same?
6.What are different modes available in order to register a plugin?
7.What is the significance of 'Act on Behalf of Another User Privilege' in Dynamics 365?
8.Suppose I am having Delete Privilege of User Access Level on Account Entity. And my Manager 
  is having Delete Privilege of Organisation Access Level on the same. Now If I work on behalf  
  of my Manager (In either Plugin/Workflow/WEB API etc) then What Access Level I would be having in order to delete the Account?
9.Suppose I don't have Read Privilege on Account Entity. But my Manager is having that Privilege of 
  Organisation Access Level. Now If I work on behalf of my Manager (In either Plugin/Workflow/WEB API etc) 
  then Will I be able to read the Account Entity records?
10.How to get Page data/fields values using JavaScript in Dynamics 365 as Xrm.Page has been deprecated in the latest CRM release?
11.How CRM manage concurrent requests inside plugins?
12.What role a User must have to create and activate a real-time workflow?
13.Does Real-time Workflow revert the changes if any error occurs during performing any operation?
14.What are the stages on which Real Time Workflow works?
15.What is the difference between entity.Id and entity.PrimaryEntityId in the plugin?
16.When to use Target as an Entity and Target as an EntityReference?
17.What are the Limitations of Muti Select Fields in D365?
18.Can add up to 150 values available in Multi Select Fields?
19.Is it possible to trigger a javascript on change of rollup and calculated field??
20.Is it possible to trigger a Plugin on change of rollup and calculated field??
21.Is it possible to trigger a workflow on change of rollup and calculated field??
22.If you use Column Set(true) and perform service.Update(obj), will it update all column?
23.Which one is faster. Set in Descending order - Query Expression, Fetch XML, LINQ?
24.Best Practices - Maximum number of fields on an entity?
25.Difference between Primary Field and Primary Key in CRM Form?
26.How many custom primary keys you can create in crm?
27.Filtered View?
28.Role of Technical Lead?
29.BRD vs FRD vs FDD vs TDD?
30.What is your biggest weakness?
31.Agile or Waterfall which one is better?
32.Difference between Functional and Technical Consultant Role?
33.How to handle fresher team being a Team Lead?
34.Most challenging task and situation that you handled and how did you handle that?
35.Difference between Waterfall/Agile and DevOps?
36.How to decide whether should I go with Agile or Waterfall?
37.Tell me the Sprint Process?
38.What is the process when you not able to complete user story in a particular sprint?
39.Different reusable way to keep javascript in portal?
40.Example of fetch xml in portal?
41.How can we brand portal for different group of people?
42.How can we pull other system/applications data in Portal?
43.What is Solution Principles in software developments?
44.Being a Team Lead what is your way of working?
45.Difference between Build and Release?
46.4What is the best way to store all plugins classes in visual studio?
47.How to do Unit Testing in Dynamics 365?
48.What is Apps in Dynamics 365?
49.Difference between Model Driven and Canvas App?
50.What is the design to Hide/Show View based on Security Roles?
51.How Localized string/ Custom error messages work in Plugin/Workflow in case of multi language crm?
52.Update 1Lakh + child records based on Parent record without using relationships?
53.Difference between Register Endpoints and Register Web hook?
54.How we can migrate Endpoint information from one instance to another while exporting/Importing solution in Dynamics 365?
55.What is the best way to delete components from Managed Solution?
56.Latest Enhancement and Feature of Dynamics 365 from Developer Perspective?
57.What are the Language translation options in Dynamics 365?
58.What else you do along with office work to make good environment in the team?
59.How do you motivate your team?
60.How to expose custom entity on Portal?
61.What is the way to Push data in CRM except entity form on portal?
62.Connections vs Relationship in dynamics 365?
Offline plugings



Can we create cutsome massage in plugin if yes HOW? 
How we debug and custome workflow?
When nothing is happening last few days how to get and send mail to owner?
differnce between Queryexpression and fetchxml?
Go through Azure CI/CD Pipeline?
We not created CI/CD Pipeline. we just deployed enviroment.
Data Migration/ Data Import ?
I dont worked on that perticular but i fetched data from excel and stored in dynamics using flow.
Brief introduction about sales and service?
Field level security and securtiy role?
What are the deperecated method in version 8 and 9 dynamics javascript?
form notifictaion with syntax?
BPF discription apart from some example? What are the method ?

When crm is complety down on prime and on cloud ?
Ans 

#*#Power APP/Canvas:
Explain about the Power platform echo-system?
What are PowerApps and why do we use it?
What is the difference between a Model-driven app and a Canvas app?
What are the benefits of Power Portal?
Define common data services (Dataverse), and why should we use them?
What are the types of apps that can be created in PowerApps?
Is it possible to use multiple data sources in one canvas app?
What are the different ways to submit data from PowerApps?
Can we access local network/on-premise data sources in PowerApps?
How can Error Handling be implemented in PowerApps?
How is it possible to use media files in the Canvas app?
What is a collection, and how can they be created?
How different user environments can be created in PowerApps?
How can a local or global variable be defined or used in PowerApps?
Is it possible to create PowerApps without gaining access to a license?
Why is the Patch function used in canvas apps?
What is the difference between IsMatch, Match and MatchAll functions in PowerApps?
You are building a canvas app. With the changes suggested by the client, the app screens keep on increasing.
What could be the most convenient way of using a PowerApps app inside office premises?
As a consultant, when can you choose Model-driven apps over Canvas apps?
In a collaborative environment, how can you ensure the versioning of a canvas app when there are regular updates rolled out?
Can you share a canvas app with external business partners and contractors?
Which are the types of variables that are used in PowerApps?
What is the purpose of using the SaveData() function?
Can you add responsiveness to the canvas apps?
Does the use of more and more connections in an app degrade the performance?
What is the concept of delegation in PowerApps?
When can you say that the Search() function may not be a good choice when you’re working with Sharepoint data?
Is there any specific situation when you can choose a model-driven app over a canvas app?
How can you distribute a canvas app with all the employees in an organization?
How can you call a flow from another flow in Power Automate?
Suppose you have a custom website. How can you access data from the custom website and use the same in the PowerApps canvas app?
You are given a task to include the sentiment analysis feature in your app. How can you do this?
Explain about Security Roles.
When can you opt for implementing a PowerApps Portal?
If you have a Plugin and a workflow present on a new form, which will it be executed first?
If you have a Javascript code and a Business Rule present on a new form, which will be executed first?
While working with Power BI you have created 3 charts and 3 dashboards. How can you ensure that the same can be shared with your colleagues?
What are the different license options available when it comes to the Storage aspects of the Microsoft Power Platform?
What programming language is PowerApps?
What are the major components of PowerApps?
List PowerApps Features.
What are the benefits of using PowerApps?
What are the limitations of PowerApps?
In PowerApps, how many different sorts of variables are there?
Can we use the REST API in PowerApps?
What is a flow in PowerApps?
What is the difference between PowerApps and logic apps?
What is the difference between PowerApps and Power Automate?
Which three mobile platforms can you run apps built with PowerApps?
Which data sources are supported by PowerApps?
What are PowerApps templates?
Is it possible to use the canvas app in a model-driven app?If yes How?
What is the Power Automate?
Explain about Desktop Flow?
What are the types of Power Automate?
What do power automate templates do?
How can I navigate across the PowerApps screens?
Can you automate Approval scenarios in Power Automate?
How can you call Power Automate from the Power Portal?
How can we create reports in Power BI using an on-premise data source?
How can you integrate Power BI inside dynamic 365 CE Model driven apps?
Can you explain about authorization in Power Portal?
How to define menu items in Power portal?
How to connect Dataverse data from Power Portal without using List and Form control.
How to deploy a Power Portal from one environment to another?
How to work with large data in Power Apps?

Common questions asked related to Solutions & Deployment:


Common questions asked related to XrmToolBox:
1. What is XrmToolBox, and what is its purpose in Dynamics 365?
2. How do you install XrmToolBox and connect it to your Dynamics 365 environment?
3. How does XrmToolBox help developers in their day-to-day tasks within D365?
4. Mention some of the popular tools available in XrmToolBox and their specific use cases?
5. Can we connect XrmToolBox to multiple Dynamics 365 instances & with different versions of Dynamics 365?
6. What are the security considerations when using XrmToolBox in a production environment?
7. Can you describe a specific scenario where XrmToolBox significantly improved your productivity as a Dynamics 365 developer or administrator?

#*#Common Questions asked related to Projects:

1.Tell me about your latest project & what were your roles & responsibility in that project?
2.Did your project followed Agile or Waterfall methodology? Give me some examples from your project
3.What's the difference between Agile or Waterfall methodology?
4.Explain the Hierarchy in your project? Who used to assign you task & who use to review it?
5.How the deployment used to happen? Who used to do that?
6.In your project, how scrum master use to measure and track project progress and success?
7.How many type of documentation you have did and what role do you believe project documentation plays in a successful project?
8.What tools or software you are familiar about project management?
9.How did you approached gathering and documenting business requirements for project?
10.Have you worked on projects that involve integration with other systems or platforms? How did you handle the integration challenges?
11.Can you explain the customization and configuration capabilities of Dynamics 365 that you've utilized in previous projects?
12.What is your experience with data migration in projects? or Have you did any data migration in any of your projects?
13.What testing strategies you followed to ensure a smooth deployment and minimize post-go-live issues?
14.How did you handled change requests and scope changes after some time of task allocation? 
15.Can you provide examples of requirements where you achieved significant cost savings for the client?
16.What are some common challenges you've encountered in your projects, and how did you overcome them?
17.How will you mitigate low performance issues in dynamics 365
18.What is definition of DONE?
19.What is definition of READY?
20.Do you have experience in dealing directly with clients?
21.What challenges have you faced while client interaction and did they accepted your suggestion?

#sequence of how processes trigger sequence wise works in d365 
1)System JavaScript (JS)

2)Custom JavaScript

3)Business Rules (BR)

4)Sync Plugins

5)Sync Workflows

6)Custom Actions

7)Real-time Workflows

8)Async Workflows

9)Async Plugins

10)Background Workflows


Correct execution order

Client Side
------------
System JS
Custom JS
Business Rules

Server Side (Synchronous)
-------------------------
PreValidation Plugin
PreOperation Plugin
Real-time Workflow
PostOperation Plugin

Database Commit
---------------

Server Side (Asynchronous)
--------------------------
Async Plugin
Background Workflow
